# The SetLife Network
# July 2019 Newsletter
-------

# Virtual Retreat Recap

Check out the minutes from the last virtual retreat here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HGxNFAf0e1ubfz1cVRNm37jyfPjJIjTVmSir6F6b4Fc/edit

Documenting like this is critical for informing strategy so thanks a lot to Dave for this!

# Team Sync-Up

Throughout July we saw another month of consistent collaboration on our 2 main projects that Rebeca, Sofia, and myself have been working on. We've found a good rhythym and I am saving recordings of our weekly meetings to go back to for reference and maybe even use for educational content in the future. I will recap some of that progress below, but first I want to announce some changes to how we regularly we sync up as a team.

I think the virtual retreats have been a great experiment and would like to continue developing new ideas for the structure. I want to encourage feedback from everyone else on how they've been going, but for now I'm going to recommend that we do them every other month instead of every month. They do take quite a bit of preparation on my end to make them interesting, and I'm also syncing up much more regularly with other Officers on a weekly basis so the need to establish a regular work schedule is still being met.

However, I'm also considering that with the 2-hour time commitment on a Sunday reduced to once every 2 months, it would still be helpful to meet monthly with the full team and have everyone give a brief update on what they've been working on. So this is what we can expect for the rest of 2019:

August 18th         Monthly Brief/Team Updates
September 22nd      Virtual Retreat
October 27th        Monthy Brief/Team Updates
November 17th       Virtual Retreat
December 15th       Monthy Brief/Team Updates

On my end the main things I want to share this next meeting will be updates on company strategy & some long-term planning for 2020.

# Projects: Tech Education & Website

Rebeca has finished the core backend functionality to enable us to build on own educational platform. We will start to look at building a frontend for basic content management so I can use it to develop the curriculum.

Sofia is close to finishing the website as designed by Marin making good use of the composability of the elements in the Sketch design to easily implement new UI in React. We were delayed a bit since we decided to switch to a different UI framework but hopefully will wrap it up and get it live by the end of August!

Regarding the video planning, I met with Josue to see what a collaboration would look like and while I'd be very excited to work with him, he doesn't have strong experience with producing content that is specifically education-oriented. At the moment I've put this on hold because I think the both of us lack the professional insight to move forward and create these videos. If I don't find someone by September, I'll commit to shipping the videos myself and accept the low quality that may result and we can at least iterate forward from there. I've had quite a mental block on making progress on these videos given my work availability but sometimes done is better than perfect.

-------
Oscar Lafarga</br>
President & CTO
