# The SetLife Network
# January 2019 Newsletter
-------

I’m happy to present the very first official newsletter of The SetLife Network. SetLife is a nonprofit engineering consultancy committed to strengthening the impact of science, technology, & engineering on social prosperity. Read our full mission statement [here](https://setlife.network).

Specific activities and programs for 2019 will revolve around the following key operations:
- Promoting technology education through continuously developed curriculum materials and project-based learning programs
- Establishing international relationships to cross-pollinate lifestyle and work ethic across different cultures and expand the reach of our learning programs to both English and Spanish speaking populations
- Lowering the barrier to entry for becoming a software engineer by developing tools that simplify the technical process of development

As President of the organization, I will be documenting our activities and reporting on progress on a monthly basis. 

We’ve kicked off 2019 with a small team committed to making part-time contributions to various projects and initiatives.

- Oscar Lafarga - President & CTO
- Viki Lafarga - Director of International Operations
- Quinn Pruitt - Director of Technology & Software Tooling
- David Lafarga - Director of Learning & Development

This report will cover the work done during January as well a recap of some 2018 activities since a primary focus has been setting goals for 2019.

### Applying for Tax-Exempt Status

The top priority from an administrative standpoint has been completing all necessary filing requirements for IRS Form 1023 to apply for 501c(3) tax-exempt status in the US. As of today, the final remaining issue is completing Part IV Financial Data which will require a professional consultation with a CPA to ensure due diligence in our financial records.

We will submit our application in February 2019 with plenty of time to file Form 990 before the May 2019 deadline and well within the 27 month timeframe the IRS allows for tax-exempt recognition from the day the organization is incorporated.

With the documentation in this filing, Viki can begin translating the materials in order to prepare the Spanish-equivalent incorporation documents to establish an official nonprofit entity in Spain. We are hoping to complete this process in the first half of 2019 and open a business bank account in Spain to expand our capacity to operate internationally in European markets.

### Tech Education Soft Launch

Since finalizing version 1.0 of the Fundamentals of Software course, attracting visitors to this resource in a more visually appealing form has been a priority. David has assisted in the design of a landing page for the core curriculum of our technology education programs. Viki has also completed English to Spanish translations for all written materials in preparation for this public launch.

After contributing to the first project-based learning program in Barcelona, we’ve assessed as a team how to structure these programs moving forward and we are working towards organizing another trial program in the second half of 2019. Some introductory elements that describe what project-based learning is will be included on the landing page, as well as a Google Form to begin gathering interest in the next program.

### International Relationship: FolderIT

We completed our engagement with FolderIT, an Argentinian-based software production company of 100+ employees. The goal of this initiative was to explore a working relationship with overseas developers that featured both productive development of open-source software as well as an educational experience for all participants. I was able to assume a managerial role collaborating with Federico, a FolderIT developer, where I could provide guidance in technical areas that Federico had less experience in while understanding the subtleties of working with overseas developers. 

As a native-Spanish speaker, Federico also provided valuable feedback on the Spanish translated version of the Fundamentals of Software course. We will continue to look for opportunities to leverage FolderIT whether it be fully-fledged software development for a funded project or gathering feedback on ways to deliver our educational programs.

-------

Thanks for reading and I'm excited to keep pushing forward on these efforts into 2019!

Oscar Lafarga<br/>
President & CTO
