# The SetLife Network
# June 2019 Newsletter
-------

This month has been exciting to see more collaboration and involvement from our new officers. My weekly collaborations with Sofia & Rebeca have actually helped serve as another model for project-based learning that is more flexible and remote-based than the co-located program we trialed last year in Barcelona. I'll review some of the work here but will mostly leave the details for our next retreat.

## Tech Education

So we've been able to make progress on the software side of the tech-education project with Rebeca taking on the backend development. So far the focus has been working on setting up the [data model](https://github.com/setlife-network/tech-education/issues/22) & [API server](https://github.com/setlife-network/tech-education/issues/23) so that we don't have to rely on platforms like Teachable in the long-term.

I've also given more thought towards outlining more of a feature roadmap that could provide more opportunities for project-based learning, but also ultimately create an online learning experience that is innovative and valuable for as many people as possible. Rebeca, Marin, and I all sat down together for an hour to discuss this strategy and came up with some insights you can check out [here](https://github.com/setlife-network/tech-education/issues/26)

## Landing Page

Marin cranked out some mobile-friendly designs of the website so we can proceed more smoothly with some of the frontend development. Sofia has been getting some hands-on experience with React, revamping her portfolio website as a learning exercise to better prepare for the implementation of the SetLife UI Component Library in React.

The short-term goal is to deploy a basic version of the Landing Page Marin had designed and push our brand out more publicly. We will also implement an email subscription form to start collecting contact information from people who are interested in our messaging and are curious to learn more about our programs.

## July Virtual Retreat Agenda

Finally I wanted to lay out a preliminary agenda for our 3rd Virtual Retreat on July 21st.

- Icebreakers
- Review Newsletter Content
- Company Update: Long-term planning for 2020 (6-month project)
- Company Update: Video Planner & Potential New Contributor
- Company Update: SetLife Membership
- Presentation/Demo: Sketch File Review (Marin)
- Presentation/Demo: Tech Education Backend (Rebeca)
- Games/Challenges
- Presentation/Demo: Online Learning Roadmap (Oscar)
- Presentation/Demo: Website Frontend (Sofia)
- Open Hacking/Free Time for Personal Projects
- Raffle Draw for Prize

Hope to see everyone there!

-------
Oscar Lafarga</br>
President & CTO
