# The SetLife Network
# February 2019 Newsletter
-------

### Tax-Exempt Status Pending

After many months of research and documentation, we've finally managed to submit our full 80+ page application to the IRS! After some processing time, we hopefully will get our approval as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization or at least some guidance on what is necessary for a resubmission.

Once we are approved, we can start picking up steam on fundraising efforts since more doors will be open for fiscal sponsorships and government grants. Many individuals and companies would be willing to donate to a 501(c)(3) because they can deduct the donation from their own taxable income. This is a major milestone that is worth the time and effort so we will refocus our efforts on this if there's any additional work to be done for approval.

### Project Updates

I've been able to dedicate a bit of time to circle back on some of our open-source projects (Setblocks, Setbounty, SetLife Tools) and figure out what direction to move towards.

Setblocks seems relatively stable and I've been submitting blocks every so often to get a feel for usability. I can't say there will be another major release too soon, but I think I'll have time for a bit of polishing to push a minor release next month so it looks a little nicer. Instead my focus has been defining what kind of business value the app could have and how it could be practically applied to solve problems. Check out the latest update to the [Product Definition here](https://github.com/setlife-network/setblocks/blob/develop/docs/Product-Definition.md)

I had issues getting Setbounty to build by following the Readme, but I got through a few hurdles and documented them so it's easier to set up in the future. In any case, a lot of the strategic work I did for the Setblocks Product Definition has some overlap with Setbounty and I'm sure the two will come full circle at some point in the future. In other words, there will be plenty of backend functionality that can be reused between the two of them, and it's possible someone would use both apps for similar purposes.

I tested out the SetLife UI Tools that Quinn put together which definitely helps reduce the amount of boilerplate code we need for new projects. Packaging up common components like Button, Text, Box, Card, etc into a node module makes it so that they can be automatically downloaded and imported in a standardized way. I did find a minor bug that I documented but overall it worked as expected.

I also fixed some issues with cryptographic signatures on official company documents. This will be part of the `governance-engineering-core` toolkit that is intended to help small startups manage their business. Basically the leaders of a project can cryptographically sign a document like a motion to spend capital and it can be publically verified by anyone that the document wasn't faked or forged since it was passed.

### Fundraising

I've started preparing a pitch deck to be used for attracting investors and donors to fund a fully-operating company for 2 years. The catalyst here was both the pending tax-exemption application as well as an opportunity to get feedback from a new startup called Hypothetical Capital. I'll be presenting to them on Saturday March 6th with [this deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/18i5XvVc4d-sI9o2wZWU9gleegTRa1d9gcQGdDEftXR0) and I'm sure they will have some helpful advice on what direction to go in to successfully raise the funds we are looking for.

### Tech Education & Project-Based Learning

I published a very brief article on Medium and linked it to our website to give an introductory explanation of what project-based learning is. Check it out [here](https://medium.com/the-setlife-network/an-introduction-to-project-based-learning-65b4ab70bec2)

I also drafted a syllabus for a 3-week course based on the curriculum that could be administered at a university or other educational program. Currently both Harbour Space University in Barcelona and St. Thomas Aquinas High School in Ft Lauderdale have seen the syllabus and are considering integrating it into their programs in the future.


-------

Oscar Lafarga<br/>
President & CTO
