# The SetLife Network
# May 2019 Newsletter
-------

## Virtual Retreat Recap

Dave set us up here with minutes from the last Virtual Retreat you can look through here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ota5i1HRmvulzHuMq1SXGjS0-pA9Cvs3HZx9bufnX1U/edit?usp=sharing

To go through some of the highlights briefly, we now have a very useful SetLife UI Component Library to serve as a solid design foundation from which we can start to build out websites, landing pages, banners, ads, business cards, etc thanks to Marin and the work he has contributed. We will store all designs and branding-related assets here in this [Google Drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1YYgziU181-XVvMTlXkQeAxoYsRn36Ccm). You can open the latest setlife.sketch and see that the next version of the website contains components that were designed to be reusable while maintaining the branding characteristics when it comes to spacing and color.

I shared some of the research & development of topics for the Discovering and Verifying Digital Information in the form of a "mind map" that outlines high-level topics that can be boiled down into more detailed learning material for the course. Check it out [here](https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_kx6-fQU=/) and feel free to leave feedback! The next steps will be to create video content from this outline.

We discussed that it would be best to postpone the marketing campaign until I can manage to get some video content added to the curriculum to create a richer experience and improve the chances that someone would be willing to pay for more focused learning programs. So far what we have has been good for collecting 1on1 feedback from friends & family to see what future improvements can be made.

## Curriculum Development

One of the biggest realizations so far with the development of the tech education courses has been that there is too high of an opportunity cost for any long-term solution that doesn't incorporate video. Since I don't have experience actually creating video content, this has been slow and difficult, but I started with what I know and at least started planning things out in a way that I can break things down into smaller pieces. I will be using this [Airtable base](https://airtable.com/shryXIy2RSCevDdJj) to track progress on the videos for each course.

I have also started looking for someone we can contract to do the actual video editing which is quite a time-consuming task for me. I would rather record the educational content and hand that off to someone for creative refinement after having discussed the strategy and production of the video with them beforehand.

Overall feedback on the Fundamentals of Software v1 course has been very positive and we are building an email list of interested users through the Teachable platform that we'll be able to push updates to when the next piece of content is ready.

We also have another exciting new development coming this July with an opportunity to work with another nonprofit called Hacker Fund to launch an Innovation Center in Compton Los Angeles. You can read all about this effort [here](https://www.hacker.fund/compton) and I will personally be heading to LA for a few weeks to coordinate with the lead, assist in fundraising efforts and maybe even spearhead the development of their community management software. I think there may be a really great fit here to serve as an avenue to deploy our programs as we continue to develop both the tech education material as well as our project-based learning programs.

## New Officers

We've confirmed several new team members as SetLife Officers who will be contributing to various projects on a more regular basis. We can expect them to present what they've been working on at the next Virtual Retreat.

**Rebeca Rubio**
Role: Software Developer (3-month term)
Current Project: tech-education - Backend Development

**Sofia Rodriguez**
Role: Software Developer (7-month term)
Current Project: website - Frontend Development

**Marin Basic**
Role: Visual Brand Developer (7-month term)
Current Project: website & tech-education - Brand Strategy & UI Visual Design


## Administrative

Finally to recap a few administrative points we have reviewed the proposal from Jitasa Accounting and will need to decide whether to engage in an annual contract with them by August 15th at the latest in order to meet tax filing deadlines this year.

The Virtual Retreat for June will be converted to a Tech Education Product Ideation session and we will postpone our next retreat to July so we have lots of demos to go around.

-------
Oscar Lafarga</br>
President & CTO
